---
layout: post
title: 2 PMAT Malware Analysis Process
category : [Reverse, PMAT]
tags: reverse
---

- **FLOSS (FireEye Labs Obfuscated String Solver)**: Extracts and analyzes strings from the binary, revealing potential URLs, file paths, and other indicators that can help identify the malware's purpose and origin.
- **CAPA**: Identifies the malware's capabilities and maps them to MITRE ATT&CK framework, providing insights into potential attack vectors and techniques.

# Basic Dynamic Analysis

This phase involves examining the malware's behavior in a controlled environment. We conduct analysis both with and without network connectivity to detect potential anti-analysis techniques. This approach helps identify if the malware attempts to verify its execution environment or employs network-based anti-analysis checks.

We use a combination of tools to monitor its activities:

- **Sysmon**: Provides detailed system monitoring capabilities, logging process creation, network connections, file creation, and registry modifications. Its comprehensive logging helps track the malware's activities and persistence mechanisms.
- **Sysmon View**: A complementary tool that provides a user-friendly interface to analyze Sysmon logs, making it easier to identify patterns and suspicious activities in the collected data.
- **Regshot**: Tracks changes in the file system and Windows registry
- **Inetsim**: Simulates network services to safely observe network communication
- **Wireshark**: Captures and analyzes network traffic
- **Process Monitor (ProcMon)**: Monitors system calls and process activities
- **Process Information**: Examines process relationships and dependencies
- **TCPView**: Monitors active TCP/IP connections and associated processes


# Advanced Static Analysis

With a better understanding of the malware's behavior, we dive deeper into its code structure:

- **Cutter**: Open-source reverse engineering platform for binary analysis
- **IDA Pro**: Industry-standard disassembler and debugger for detailed code analysis

# Advanced Dynamic Analysis

The final phase involves debugging the malware to uncover its core functionality:

- **WinDbg**: Microsoft's powerful debugger for analyzing Windows applications and drivers

This systematic approach allows us to thoroughly understand the malware's capabilities, behavior, and potential impact while maintaining a safe analysis environment.