---
layout: post
title: 0 PMAT Lab Intro
category : [Reverse, PMAT]
tags: reverse
---

# My Journey Through PMAT Labs

I'm excited to share my journey through the Practical Malware Analysis and Triage (PMAT) labs! This series of posts will document my progress as I work through these labs to improve and test my malware analysis skills. 
PMAT is a comprehensive set of practical exercises designed to help analysts develop and test their malware analysis capabilities through hands-on experience, they were created by HuskyHacks and are available at https://github.com/HuskyHacks/PMAT-labs.

## What is PMAT?

PMAT (Practical Malware Analysis and Triage) is a collection of labs that cover:
- Static and dynamic analysis techniques
- Anti-analysis techniques
- Anti-debugging techniques
- Speciale malware classes (phishing, maldoc, etc.)
- Real-world malware analysis scenarios

## My Learning Approach

In these posts, I'll be:
- Documenting my analysis process for each lab
- Sharing the challenges I encounter
- Discussing the tools and techniques I use
- Reflecting on what I learn from each exercise
- Sharing tips and tricks that help me along the way

## Safety First

I'll be conducting all analysis in a properly isolated virtual environment to ensure safety. Never analyze malware on your main system!
I've created a post on creating a safe malware analysis environment, check it out.

Stay tuned as I begin my journey through the PMAT labs. I'll be sharing my experiences, challenges, and learnings along the way. 
Feel free to follow along and learn with me!